# Reflection about Today's Class and My Learning About *Dart* as A Whole

To start things off, I would like to send my absolute appreciation and gratitude towards Pak Kasmir, who is my lecturer, for teaching me Visual Programming at college. He's friendly yet strict when it comes to assessing our assignment and work, which is totally fair and what I respected the most about him. Not to mention his teaching style makes the subject at least more fun and enjoyable. In this occassion, he tasked us to write a reflection of today's class and what I've learnt about *Dart* thus far of at least 200 words, thus the readme file you're about to read right now.

## Absolute Chaotic Coding Relay
...What else is there to say about today? It was chaotic, but fun. We were tasked to make a *Dart* CLI-based game of *Hangman* based on a given flowchart. At first, I, and everyone as whole, thought it'd be easy. Dear god, we were proven to be wrong so hard. It was the first time we had to read an *OOP* flowchart, unlike the more structurised flowchart we've read before. Not only that, but in every 10 minutes, we had to switch to another people's work. This was where I struggled the most, understanding other people's code.

I was struggling to even comprehend the flowchart was given, but I had no choice but to just write everything down to the letter. It was driving me around the bend because I had to consider the SOLID principle, the effective *Dart* documention, DRY principle, KISS principle, you name it. On top of that, I didn't know the majority of the syntaxes I needed for my *Dart* program to work, since I was still under the influence of how OOP implementation was in *Java*.

When it was time to switch to my classmate's work after 10 minutes, that was where things started to go unaccording to my expections. One guy had wrote everything in a single file. Another guy did the same, but in Bahasa Indonesia, which costed me a lot of time to reread their code first. But the biggest shock to me, is that one of my classmates' **hasn't even install the *Dart* SDK yet,** or maybe she did, but hasn't added it to the environment variables. Yeah. It costed me a lot of time and energy. Though, I did say that it was somewhat fun. Why? It's because it was a completely new challenge for me. As a way to improve myself, at least by a bit. For that, you'll read it in the next section

## Personal Thoughts and Hopes For Improvement
I'm just gonna cut to the chase. I was devastated, not only by my friends' lower skills, but because of me, for **not open-minded**, and **couldn't fully control my emotions.** If I could be honest, there were times where I almost wanted to shout out of frustration, and one time, I did smack the table, not too loud, to be clear, with my bare hand. But at the same time, I realised that I was putting too much pressure on myself. Truth to be told, I was so focused on myself that I neglected those who are below me in terms of skill level and I didn't count the little victories I have acchived. I apologised. Little victories such as, getting a small headstart by opening up the *Flutter* roadmap.sh, or have little fun experiment with some Dart code samples to learn something.

Which is why, in some ways, I found today's relay challenge to be fun because it was a challenge for me to be more open-minded. Yea sure, it was a shock that some of my friends didn't get the memo, but at least I've opened my eyes more to that fact. Another thing is that this challenge is a reality check of how far I have made my code to be self-documenting. So that's another lesson for me.

Today's class is also another reminder for me that I have a **LONG WAY** to go in learning *Dart* and *Flutter*. It'll take a long way for me to get to that point. Hopefully I'll have a better control of my emotions and be more open-minded.